I've been talking with early stack at
his home in Riggin burg interlaken after
speaking about his exploits and
Annapurna only began to reflect on his
time on Everest where he was involved in
the now infamous incident with the
Sherpas I had a really really hard time
and it changed completely my my
personality I lost a lot after this tour
you know I get a lot of people you know
if they say like in front of you they're
really nice and kind and like your
friends down in the back they they would
hit you with a knife and and this I have
a really still really hard time to trust
people now I mean the stories you can
find out everything that happened but do
you feel it your side has been told now
I have told my part how it was how I act
and there's not more to tell it's like
the share Postell their way the guys
tear their way we can discuss that
endless it's like I don't need to talk
about any more yeah I have my conclusion
about it and that's it if I want to go
back to Everest I just accept that how
it is or I just leave it so you think
you go back I don't know if I go back or
not but I mean we got an extension for
our permit which is kind of like like ya
know ironic homeless no it's kind of
nice you know it's like a statement but
they were wrong
yeah if they extend to permeated yeah I
don't do that so I really can touch on
their own what what they think about
this do you think this time goes by it
will feel like unfinished business and
you will want to go back I know you
can't tell now but yeah like this is
exactly why I say I'm not saying never
go back there because this
it's still there this project and I mean
I had another porn after 2008 I waited
five years and now I felt ready to go
back maybe a couple years I feel ready
to go back to Everest but when I go back
it's different feeling you know and and
all the way how Everest works now I know
it now better and if I'm willing to go
there I just play the game or I don't go
there
so you're accepted that's just how it is
I thought that it accepted even before
but maybe it was not like what people
expect in the mountain do you think some
of the the magic of Everest is gone as a
result of forever for you I mean the
magical various for me it's it's a weird
relationship you know it's mean it's the
highest mountain in the world but you
know there are all these fixed lines and
people go up there with oxygen and and
then you go up there with a dog see and
then you have to explain why you go with
all the oxygen it's kind of like this
magic it's not there anymore and it
wasn't there before
last spring I climb lots of people
climbing they don't want to climb
Everest I don't want to climb Everest
but part of you always wonders what it
must be like to climb it and that's
always there this is no reason because I
know it's not a very interesting climb
but it's it's the highest one in the
world and it's the altitude is really
interesting yeah 8,848 meter that's
interesting you must really notice that
from say Annapurna yeah I mean I suppose
so it's a huge difference it's like he
cannot compare that like yeah with
altitude yeah so that's what it's
interesting on Everest and that what
makes me accept all around on Everest to
go there I get the impression that you
don't always enjoy some elements of
being a sponsored corner I don't like to
be a sponsor climber you know I of
course I I was choosing the way you are
choosing the route to be a sponsor
climber because it gives me the
opportunity to
to climb by all these mountains I
climbed all these hard routes but there
is a lot of things I told you know me
you know something all this pastie
talking around climbing get sick you
know but but it's part of the game so if
you say yes there is not always the
sunny side there is also that the back
side of of something do you worry that
in some ways being a sponsor climb if
you lose size of why you climbed in the
first place it's it's really easy to
lose that you know like especially now
when you get old you know we you can
still live with your name you know you
don't really have to climb hard yeah
it's like ah but I want to climb for me
that what I decided what I'm doing
alright
until now I always did that it was never
like a sponsor is paying my expedition I
just have my salary from a sponsor and I
invest money in an exhibition or in a
project if I go to Everest it's just
more expensive than going to I don't
know the six thousand meter peak but I
make this decision what I'm doing
next week I'm climbing daily there's
this little tunnel and went out loud and
that's that this existence amazing
overhanging wood bottom chamber
Adam traveled to valence in southern
France where he's just won the latest
round of the International Federation of
sport climbing world cup